preparing livestream webinar takes a
little while to connect but it's a
pretty cool technology this webinar
stuff I hope you're enjoying attending
these live lessons they're quite fun to
give and the last little bit to connect
come on and it's stuck of course it's
stuck
while we're waiting hello de nada from
New Zealand nice to see you in here
while we're waiting if you have any
questions just fire away into the chat
cool well Morrigan is here for the first
time welcome and of course it stopped
stuck there you go have to do it again
bear with me bear with me no it says
it's working fine done there you go just
I don't know I don't know I don't know
technology sometimes you think how can
technology be broken how can it not work
but there you go it's it's it has
natural it's just like human beings
sometimes it gets sick as well there's
my spot like cool and even cooler right
let's start so IELTS reading super
skills thanks for coming along this one
we're going to something different
usually we look at strategies we look at
skimming scanning understanding synonyms
paraphrasing etc which are all important
reading skills but this time I want to
do something different this time I'm
going to simplify i'll treating for you
this is kind of like IELTS reading for
dummies whereby
going to make these questions just dead
simple one of the things that one of the
problems with IELTS reading is that the
questions are confusing they're not
necessarily difficult in in what they're
asking you to do like the readings not
that difficult but the question itself
is confusing as hell and you look at it
you think you know like match sentence
endings and you've got some answer
options and you've got ABCDE and you've
got one two three and you've got to pass
it and use no more than two words and
you think what the what I asking me to
do well let's see for example let's look
at matching information one of the
tricky ones we're going to do some
tricky ones but I'm going to simplify
them this is what it's asking you to do
it says which paragraph contains the
following information so here are your
paragraphs a B C this one says J is a
funny guy he always makes fabulous jokes
sometimes he does stand-up comedy
this is J placer every weekend he
sometimes plays these friends once he
kicked a great goal this one says J has
a white scooter it's very cheap to run
it saves him a lot of money so what is
the answer here we need to connect
number one to one of these paragraphs is
it going to be 1a 1b or 1c type it into
the chat on a1 b1 see which best which
paragraph contains the information of J
is hilarious a B or C
cool too easy this is IELTS simplified
good let's have a look the answer is of
course because this is dead simple a J
is a funny guy J blah blah blah de blah
blah in other words J is hilarious
this is the essence of that paragraph
it's got nothing to do with soccer it's
got nothing to do with your scooter J
use hilarious connects to this one keep
that in mind let's now do a real one and
I want you to keep that idea in your
mind so match these to the paragraph
please
[Music]
good Moser
well done gone pomander
those are check your number two please
looking good well done
Joe Murray check your number three Moe's
a check your number three as well or huh
let me check number three
you
well Morgan check your number - okay
power wind is finish well done excellent
very quick fun we is just finished
you
good muna I'll give you one more minute
thirty seconds left
ten seconds cool good stuff so I wanted
to make that simple for you so if we if
we go back a slide and we look at this
one which was here's your statement down
here J is hilarious and here are your
three paragraphs and see you this is
going to be the essence of one of these
paragraphs so if we summarized each of
these down which one would be Dave's
hilarious it was a because it was
talking about being a funny guy making
jokes and doing stand-up comedy
James larious it's the same principle
here so what we're doing is we're taking
this paragraph and if we boiled it down
which one of these would it be okay so
is it going to be one a b c d or e let's
have a look so it was one eighth one was
e a change in diet and a change in
undertaking other remains from the same
gravesites show a dietary shift
if you've seen these webinars before
you'll know about synonyms so a change
in diet shift in diet synonyms are very
important indicating some hon discovered
a settled way of life and the joys of
agriculture leaving their wanderlust and
possibly their blood lust behind a
change in undertaking fine so 1e we
summarized this down to one little
statement it would be this one here
number two was d-bone there's a keyword
that is definitely a keyword so if you
went through here you would see that
this one has the word bone in it this is
the only one and but let's read more
carefully bone shows some farmers join
the Huns chemical analyses of bone blah
blah blah blah blah some farmers on the
edge of the Empire left their homesteads
to become hun like roaming herdsmen and
to take up arms with the tribe so this
one and this one this one summarizes
this D paragraph D three the Huns may
have caught the fall of the Roman
Emperor Emperor Empire let me disappear
and read a it says marauding hordes of
barbarian Huns under their ferocious
leader
Attila are often credited may have
triggered caused the fall of one of the
greatest empires Rome the Huns may have
caused the fall of the Roman Empire
so three is a three connects with a what
about for when the nomads infiltrated
the Empire so nomads and infiltrated are
important words and we've got B
historians believe hanok incursions ah
open the floodgates for nomadic tribes
to encroach infiltrate the Empire cool
what about five the Huns may not have
been all bad
and that says according to Roman
accounts according to Roman accounts
this is according to research so
according to Rome
cows the Huns brought only terror and
destruction however research from the
University of Cambridge
blah-blah-blah-blah-blah has revealed
the for the first time how ordinary
people may have dealt with the arrival
of the Huns yeah maybe that's not such a
great question for me
but you get the idea cool you've done
matching information good let's look at
matching sentence endings because this
is also a confusing one here's my simple
explanation it says write the correct
letter well here we've just got a four
questions one to five well sorry we've
got questions one to three on the answer
sheet provider so what you're going to
see is a half a sentence a B C D and E
here I've just given you a and here
you're going to see the second half of
the sentence one two three four five so
you have to connect the first half of
the second sentence to the second half
of the sentence but it's not that simple
because look J's car goes fast possible
J's car is broken down possible J's car
is red they're all possible but what you
need to do is match put the sentence
together according to the passage so
please type in your answer yeah dead
simple make it dead simple and we're
about to do one that hard but I want you
to keep this concept in your mind okay
correct J's car is red that's right
J's car is red so the answer is three a
three a connect see it should be a three
because yeah anyway IELTS is a funny
thing
cool you've got the idea let's now put
it into practice
[Music]
Rajeev check your number one place good
Veronica gorgeou Murray
you
how's it all going on YouTube by the way
please give me a thumbs up if you like
this listen I would appreciate it
[Music]
I've just realized that our a and D is a
bit ambiguous so look we'll go through
the answers in a second I apologize in
advance so number two and three will be
difficult to answer
in fact what I might do let's do this
about number three don't worry
this one cool 30 seconds left
we won't worry about number three
because it's not a great it's a bit
stupid my fault 10 seconds
[Music]
cool all right let's look at the answers
here right so we've got elephant raiding
crops let me disappear it says crop
raiding by elephant so we know we're
looking here cooperating by elephants is
a serious problem in India okay
elephants raiding crops die each year
hmm no unknown is the highest among wild
chimpanzees is extremely problematic is
a serious problem hmm that looks good so
I like that so I'm going to don't worry
I did this very quickly so there's going
to be mistakes so number one here there
we go let me do this manually that might
be better
elephants raiding crops is extremely
problematic makes sense to me now
cool what about this one I've done it
backwards actually you know what hold on
let me do this manually let me just go
back and we'll do it like this give me
my pen all right all right all right oh
right right so we've got number one
elephant's reading crops is extremely
problematic fine hundreds of people are
well we've only got this one so it must
be die each year so this is number two
and we're going to skip number three
attacks from lipids are unknown that's
number three three be sorry for this is
very confusing even for me number five
the recorded growls scare the elephants
there you go so we skipped number three
that makes sense we've gone one two four
five I've confused myself now we need to
look into the text so I can just show
you why those are the answers so
elephants raiding crops number one is
extremely problematic we can see that
here fine
number two hundreds of people die each
year
if we look here it says about 400 people
hundreds of people are killed fine die
each year we've skipped number three got
number four attacks from leopards are
unknown where's the keyword lipid we can
see it here lipids aren't known to prey
on elephants fine so that makes sense
and finally the record growls scare the
elephants
so here it's talking about recording the
growls of tigers for example and here it
says the elephants ultimately retreated
from growls with both cats not the
greatest IELTS questions you've ever
seen but I hope that helps with
understanding that
yes you need to write letters in the
answer sheet that's correct
food Francie that's right
yes so in the answer sheet it will have
1 2 3 4 5 and what you'll do with number
1 is your right so elephants raiding
crops is extremely problematic in your
answer sheet you write a number to
hundreds of people on your answer sheet
you will write a number 3 on your answer
sorry it's forgetting birth right number
4 on your answer sheet attacks from
leopards you will write ah be unknown
let's move on to the next ones that was
a bit of a disaster I did this very
quickly let me get my spotlight out cool
true that's not given this one is always
a little bit confusing let's simplify it
so you've got to write true false or not
given on your answer sheet now what you
need to do is here is the passage okay
here is the passage and you've got three
statements now what you want to do is
read these J's car is green and then you
want to look at the passage and it says
J has a red car and you need to write
true false or not given four number one
next one says J owns a car that is red
you read the passage it says J has a red
car you have to write true false or not
given number three says J's car is old
you look at the passage and you write
through false or not given so please do
that good
a real good start cool done alright now
we're going to apply that concept of
understanding why this year's J's
Curry's green is false because the
passage says J has a red car this is
green this says read these to contradict
each other these are two facts that
contradict each other this is false J
has a red car J owns a car that is red
true this one and this one say the same
thing they use different words that
factually they are the same number three
J's car is old well it says here J has a
red car could be old
it could be brand new we just don't know
so it's not given okay so if you had one
F 2 T 3 ng well done let's now apply it
to this problem here
[Music]
you
so pi winter check your number too
Rajeev check your number too smart
to kill number 2 Google Bhargavi looking
good check in the 3 Bhargavi good Moser
[Music]
Joe Murray check your number 3
Remillard chicken number four
you
good one more minute to finish this one
[Music]
[Laughter]
alright this is a way to trick this one
goodbye window yes alright it's actually
pretty hard to write these questions so
that they're clear especially when you
when you write them in 45 minutes the
whole thing ten seconds popping your
answers
[Music]
cool all right we're going to look at
these one by one I'm going to stay
invisible we're going to look at number
one all right so before we do that let's
just quickly look at the the
conceptually simple one so here's the
passage J has a red car J's car is green
false J owns a car that is red true J's
car is old not given here we go
pitch rotation allows for a horizontal
chewing motion what so we look here it
says pitch rotation results in basic
up-and-down movement okay so what's up
and down is that horizontal know because
horizontally side-to-side that's false
this contradicts this in other words
they say different things good what
about number two pitch refers to the up
and down motion or aeroplanes wings okay
interesting here's the word aeroplane
the terms pitched in you're usually
described movements of aeroplanes okay
this says pitch refers to the
up-and-down motion of aeroplanes wings
can movement of airplanes it could be
the movement of the aeroplane the whole
aeroplane going up and down it could be
the wings okay it's it's not given it
doesn't mention what part of the
airplane it's not contradictory it's not
contradicting pitch is the up-and-down
motion we read that here up and down
movement and here it says pitch refers
to the up and down motion of airplane
wings
describe the move movements of
aeroplanes it could be the wings so
we're gonna leave that is not given
number three all mammals including
extinct ones have similar jaws here it
says almost all modern mammals here it
says including extinct ones share
similarities in their jaw structures
all mammals almost all modern modern
mammals so what is number three
true/false or not given what's going
into the chat here false it's false it's
contradictory it's definitely not true
let's look at in all mammals including
extinct ones almost all modern mammals
they definitely contradict each other
they say opposite things most share come
and let our similar jaws that is false
it's it's here it's given but it
contradicts it says something false it
says something different wrong what
about number four pitch and your
movements allow mammals to eat a range
of different foods so here it's talking
about the pitch in your and it says this
pitch in your movements allows mammals
to have especially diverse diets pitch
in your movements allow mammals eat a
range of different foods diverse diet to
eat diverse diets to eat a range of
different foods true false not given
let's have a look at the chat true good
yes this says the same thing is this but
just using different words this allows
mammals to have especially diverse diets
this allows mammals to a range of
different foods they say the same thing
but just using different words so it's
true what about this one
multi-directional chewing in other words
pitch and you're chewing helped
prehistoric prehistoric mammals survive
during shortages of food
okay prehistoric mammals function
mammals yes this is the same thing these
characteristics in other words
multi-directional chewing meant they
could be more resourceful during tough
times helped more resource could be more
resourceful
during during tough times during
shortages of food it's talking about the
jaws that's got to be true these say the
same thing but just in different words
this one requires a bit of practice but
if you keep that simple concept in mind
about true false not given and you apply
it and you practice it you'll start to
understand it becomes clearer and
clearer and you won't make those
decisions that will be wrong
ok so 1 F 2 ng 3 F 4 T 5 T right before
we do that I'm going to go back because
I realized the mistake I was making with
this one here and why I got confused and
fancy foot was right the way to think
about this sorry this is the this is the
J's car half a sentence and you find the
other half of the sentence the way to do
this one is not to do it the way I did
it I was looking at I'm thinking why am
i confused what's going on you do it
like this
so elephants rating crops so 1e
I'll put the letter in the wrong place
or I was putting the number here do
number two letter hundreds of people a
die each year one was wrong for attacks
from leopards are unknown B does that
make sense now don't even when the
teacher gets confused there's a big
problem you know that the recorded
growls scare the elephants that's how
you do it because this effectively is
your answer sheet because in the answer
sheet you have one two three four five
then you write ei so foot Francie thank
you for clearing that up now now I know
how to teach this better at all don't do
it like that what's going on come on
through files not given we just did that
that was a good one now we're on to
answer short question here's the
simplified version let me disappear okay
so choose no more than two words and/or
a number so in other words you can have
two words you can have two words and a
number or you can have a number that's
what this crazy instruction means no
more than two work you can have one too
you can have one or two words you have
one word and a number you can have two
words in a number or you can just have a
number from each from the text for each
answer here's the text Jane has a red
car car is in 1976 Toyota Corolla he
bought it for $400 from his Uncle Tom
how much did Jay pay for his car what's
the answer came straight from the text
correct even though there's a funny
little symbol here that's okay it says
nothing about symbols
you should write you can write 400 you
can write $400 in words that's fine
because you can use two words so that's
possible I would just write simply 400
bucks that makes it easy so you need to
take the words directly from the text
and put them there and make sure you
follow this instruction let's do it
properly
[Music]
good excellent Val
your gun please check your question - go
ahead Nikki good pie window you got
number three well done
dug deep make it make sure you spell
nectar correctly
be mean check your number three
you
good make sure it'll spell
thirty seconds left good Benny check
your number three because there are two
things that the plant provides the ants
you
gorgeou Murray got it Kanzi why check
the spelling of your word sauce
number four you would get that wrong if
you spell it wrong and now right now
Narendra check the spelling of the word
and
cool all right 10 seconds popping your
answers
you
[Music]
right let's have a look so this is
answer short question we take the answer
directly from the text you don't have to
change it let me move some of my webinar
ring stuff here go right so the
instruction says choose no more than
three words from the text for each
answer so we can have one word two words
or three words we cannot have four words
and we cannot have a number fine that's
what the instruction says number one
what type of plants have a symbiotic
relationship with ads hmm well here it
says symbiotic relationships and here it
says many epiphytic plants so if you
have a fitting or epiphytic plants
that's fine good yep affiant they're
cool then if you know if there's a tree
and then there's another plant that
lives on the train it's a separate
spread plant that's an epiphyte or
epiphytic
plant how many species are involved in a
symbiotic relationship
sounds like some sort of weird romantic
relationship to two how do we know that
let's have a look at the text
relationships symbiotic relationships
with ants that is relationships that
involve the close and long-term living
together of two species - taken straight
from the text and it says here you
cannot write a number so we wrote this
as a word so if you wrote the number two
it would be wrong if you wrote the word
- according to the instruction it would
be correct number three what do the
plants provide the ants hmm so the
plants provide their insect partners the
ants with shelter and our supply of
nectar so one two three four five six
words so what we need to is cut some
words off so we're going to write
shelter and nectar three words and we're
going to discard these other words like
supply and the prepositions of and the
articles
we don't need them what do the plans
provide the ants shelter NICTA perfect
this one was a bit ambiguous what do the
ants provide the bats while the ants
return the favor by serving as a source
of fertilizer there's one possible one
in the form of fecal matter or ant poo
so if you had fertilizer or fecal matter
that would be correct if you had what
this is something like that that's not a
great question I apologize for them
it'll be a bit clearer in footprinting
different question what did the plan to
provide the ants what did the ant
provide the plants yeah there we go
cool ah here number two can we write two
species asks
anika yes if you had two species you
would also get that correct that's fine
good good good
that brings me to the end of the live
class if you have any questions first of
all I just want some feedback that's the
first time that I've done IELTS reading
simplified please give it I know the
question went great but does that work
does that help you to understand IELTS
reading questions just type in what you
think about that does it does it do it
alright people think it helps quite well
yes yes it did
okay good it's Marie Nica says yeah a
lot very helpful all right yeah yeah yes
Bessie I can see your comments yes good
yes yes yes good cool good to know good
to know because the problem with IELTS
reading as I said at the beginning is
not necessarily the content of the
reading passage the problem is the
question itself the problem is looking
at that question and it's so confusing
and you especially that the real tricky
one I think is a matching sentence
endings that's tricky because you're
keeping so much in your mind three
things at once and I think the true
false not given the yes no not given
stricka-- think the matching information
tricky Mauro's are you've got your test
tomorrow good luck my man I hope you do
well all right cool
foot Francie does it make a difference
reviews capital letters or not no as far
as I know no I don't think so but please
double check cool thanks very much for
coming now there will be a new timetable
for the live classes and if you're an
e-2 language comm member free or paid
you will receive an email to register
pay members will get live classes every
night of the week free members will get
live classes once a week just on reading
so if you want live classes on listening
if you want live classes on writing
tasks one writing task 2 speaking I
strongly recommend becoming a paid
member it's not that expensive you get
access to all the great materials you
get a tutorial you get feedback on your
writing so um yeah do think about that
and uh yeah if you're on youtube please
give me a thumbs up e to language comm
will keep providing you all the secrets
you need for success yes we have an
express package going at the moment our
age so you can email hello at E to
language comm for a limited time only
it's sixty nine US dollars for full
access to the platform cluding all of
these live classes cool good luck moser
see you guys soon Mo's are a few if you
get a good score please write a nice
comment in our Facebook page see you